                  "THE PREVENTION OF CONCEPTION"
                                                     [March 1914]
     Is there any reason why women should not receive clean, harmless, scientific knowledge on how to prevent conception?  Everybody is aware that the old, stupid fallacy that such knowledge will cause a girl to enter into prostitution has long been shattered.  Seldom does a prostitute become pregnant.  Seldom does the girl practicing promiscuity become pregnant.  The woman of the upper middle class have all available knowledge and implements to prevent conception.  The woman of the lower middle class is struggling for this knowledge.  She tries various methods of prevention, and after a few years of experience plus medical advice succeeds in discovering some method suitable to her individual self.  The woman of the people is the only one left in ignorance of this information.  Her neighbors, relatives and friends tell her stories of special devices and the success of them all.  They tell her also of the blood-sucking men with M. D. after their names who perform operations for the price of so-and-so.  But the working woman's purse is thin.  Its far cheaper to have a baby, "though God knows what it will do after it gets here."  Then, too, all other classes of women live in places where there is at least a semblance of privacy and sanitation.  It is easier for them to care for themselves whereas the large majority of the women of the people have no bathing or sanitary conveniences.  This accounts too for the fact that the higher the standard of living, the more care can be taken and fewer children result.  No plagues, famines or wars could ever frighten the capitalist class so much as the universal practice of the prevention of conception.  On the other hand no better method could be utilized for increasing the wages of the workers.
     As is well known, a law exists forbidding the imparting of information on this subject, the penalty being several years' imprisonment.  Is it not the time to defy this law?  And what fitter place could be found than in the pages of the WOMAN REBEL?
The Woman Rebel, Mar. 1914,  8 (MSPME-CDS C16:522).